Dec 4, 15h-16h
Attended: Jason Rowe, Loïc Albert, Michael Radica, Geert Jan Talens, Antoine Darveau-Bernier, Neil Cook, Étienne Artigau, René Doyon 

* Goal is to have simulations + extracted time series before April 1st 2020.
* MR was able to install and run Awesimsoss on his Mac laptop by simply following github instructions. Program hanged after on simulation larger than ~50-100 frames.
* GJT was able to install on Ubuntu but required more work related to lunix packages. But, simulations crashed immediately with to out of memory error.
* NC was able to reproduce this problem on his linux PC which required 38GB of space, which was not available.
Action NC: try installing Awesimsoss on bigger server with more memory
* JR has made progress in making python wrapper functions to his fortran code to make 2D simulations. Still not pushed to his github. Is planning on using pip framework.
Action LA/MR: feed JR with the proper headers to add and give him examples of raw fits files.
* JR will then generate a GJ436 simulation. Includes feeded flux vs lambda at each time step.
* Generate awesimsoss images ran through the DRP for ADB to test his extraction algorithm
Action LA: reactivate JR account on maestria
Action NC/LA/GJT: install the Space Telescope Science Institute (STScI) pipeline (DRP) on a server
Action LA: Contact Compute Canada to have access (or estimate $ needs for local server). Needs under David’s name.
Action GJT: Get familiar with DRP and identify input/output of it.
